'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1993 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" @(#) AppInit.3 1.3 94/12/17 16:17:06
'\" 
.so man.macros
.HS Tcl_AppInit tclc 7.0
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_AppInit \- Perform application-specific initialization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
\fBTcl_AppInit\fR(\fIinterp\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_Interp *interp
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Interpreter for the application.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTcl_AppInit\fR is a procedure that is invoked by the main programs
for Tcl applications such as \fBtclsh\fR and \fBwish\fR.
Its purpose is to allow new Tcl applications to be created without
modifying existing main programs such as those for \fBtclsh\fR
and \fBwish\fR.
To create a new application simply write a new version of
\fBTcl_AppInit\fR to replace the default version provided by Tcl,
then link your new \fBTcl_AppInit\fR with the Tcl library, which
contains the main program from \fBtclsh\fR (be sure to specify the
switch ``\fB\-u _main\fR'' to the linker to force it to use the
version of \fBmain\fR from the Tcl library).
.PP
\fBTcl_AppInit\fR is invoked after other initialization in
\fBmain\fR and before entering the main loop to process commands.
Here are some examples of things that \fBTcl_AppInit\fR might do:
.IP [1]
Call initialization procedures for various packages used by
the application.
Each initialization procedure adds new commands to \fIinterp\fR
for its package and performs other package-specific initialization.
.IP [2]
Process command-line arguments, which can be accessed from the
Tcl variables \fBargv\fR and \fBargv0\fR in \fIinterp\fR.
.IP [3]
Invoke a startup script to initialize the application.

.SH KEYWORDS
application, argument, command, initialization, interpreter
