'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 1989-1993 The Regents of the University of California.
'\" Copyright (c) 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
'\"
'\" See the file "license.terms" for information on usage and redistribution
'\" of this file, and for a DISCLAIMER OF ALL WARRANTIES.
'\" 
'\" @(#) RecordEval.3 1.11 94/12/17 16:17:27
'\" 
.so man.macros
.HS Tcl_RecordAndEval tclc 7.4
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl_RecordAndEval \- save command on history list before evaluating
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <tcl.h>\fR
.sp
int
\fBTcl_RecordAndEval\fR(\fIinterp, cmd, eval\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Tcl_Interp *interp;
.AP Tcl_Interp *interp in
Tcl interpreter in which to evaluate command.
.AP char *cmd in
Command (or sequence of commands) to execute.
.AP int eval in
0 means evaluate \fIcmd\fR, TCL_NO_EVAL means record it but don't
evaluate it.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBTcl_RecordAndEval\fR is invoked to record a command as an event
.VS
on the history list and then execute it using \fBTcl_GlobalEval\fR.
.VE
It returns a completion code such as TCL_OK just like \fBTcl_GlobalEval\fR
and it leaves information in \fIinterp->result\fR.
If you don't want the command recorded on the history list then
you should invoke \fBTcl_Eval\fR or \fBTcl_GlobalEval\fR
instead of \fBTcl_RecordAndEval\fR.
Normally \fBTcl_RecordAndEval\fR is only called with top-level
commands typed by the user, since the purpose of history is to
allow the user to re-issue recently-invoked commands.
If the \fIeval\fR argument is TCL_NO_EVAL then the command is
recorded without being evaluated.

.SH KEYWORDS
command, event, execute, history, interpreter, record
