\input texinfo.tex

@setfilename infoman.info
@set InfoProgVer 2.9
@set MakeinfoVersion 1.51
@ifinfo
@paragraphindent none
@footnotestyle separate
@end ifinfo

@setchapternewpage odd
@c @smallbook
@finalout

@settitle GNU Online Documentation
@titlepage
@title GNU Online Documentation
@subtitle Reading and Making Info files
@sp 3
@subtitle For GNU Info version @value{InfoProgVer}
@author Brian J. Fox (bfox@@ai.mit.edu)
@page
@line{@hfill Edited by Cygnus Support (doc@@cygnus.com)}
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1992, 1993, 1994 Free Software Foundation

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation
approved by the Free Software Foundation.
@end titlepage

@ifinfo
This file documents GNU Info, a program for viewing the online formatted
versions of texinfo files.

Copyright @copyright{} 1992, 1993, 1994 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
@end ignore

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation
approved by the Free Software Foundation.
@end ifinfo

@clear STANDALONE

@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex fn cp
@syncodeindex ky cp

@node Top
@top GNU Online Documentation

@cindex info files, description of
You can read the manuals for @sc{gnu} software either on paper, as with
any other manual, or as online @dfn{info files}, using an ordinary ASCII
terminal.

You can browse through the online documentation with @sc{gnu} Emacs,
or with the program Info, a smaller program intended just for the
purpose of viewing info files.  This manual describes version
@value{InfoProgVer} of Info.

@cindex texinfo, description of.
Info files are generated by the program @code{makeinfo} from a
@dfn{texinfo} source file.  (Texinfo is a documentation markup
language designed to allow the same source file to generate either
printed or online documentation.)  This manual describes version
@value{MakeinfoVersion} of Makeinfo.  The Texinfo language is
described in a separate manual, @cite{Texinfo: The GNU Documentation
Format}.

@menu
* Info::	Reading GNU Online Documentation
* Makeinfo::	Formatting GNU Documentation as Info Files
* Index::
@end menu

@node Info
@chapter Reading GNU Online Documentation

@cindex nodes, description of
The info file version of a manual is organized into @dfn{nodes}, which
usually correspond to the chapters and sections of the printed book.  You
can follow them in sequence, if you wish, just like in the printed
book---but there are also other choices.  Info files have menus that
let you go quickly to the node that has the information you need.
Info has ``hot'' references; if one section refers to another,
you can tell Info to take you immediately to that other
section---and you can get back again easily to take up your reading
where you left off.  Naturally, you can also search for particular words
or phrases.

@cindex getting started
@cindex learning Info
@cindex tutorial for Info
The best way to get started with the online documentation system is to
use a programmed tutorial by running Info itself.  You can get into
Info by just typing its name---no options or arguments are
necessary---at your shell's prompt (shown as @samp{eg$} here):

@example
eg$ info
@end example

@noindent
Info displays its first screen, a menu of the documentation
available, and awaits your input.  Type the single letter

@example
h
@end example

@noindent
to request a tutorial, designed to teach you how to use Info.

If you already use Emacs, you may want to get into the documentation
browsing mode, instead, by typing @kbd{C-h i} inside Emacs.

You can get out of Info at any time by typing the single letter
@kbd{q}.  

@cindex Info command summary, online
@cindex command summary online, Info
Info can also display a summary of all its commands at any time, when
you type the single character @kbd{?}.

@lowersections
@include userdoc.texi
@raisesections

@node Makeinfo
@chapter Making Info Files from Texinfo Files

Makeinfo is the program that builds info files from texinfo files.
Before reading this chapter, you should be familiar with reading info
files.

If you want to run Makeinfo on a texinfo file prepared by someone else,
this chapter contains all you need to know.

However, to write your own texinfo files, you should also read the
Texinfo manual.  @xref{Top, , Texinfo, texinfo, Texinfo---the GNU
Documentation Format}.

@include docmakeinfo.texi

@node GNU Info Global Index
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp

@contents
@bye
